docs/docs/connections/gitea.mdx, before:

---
title: Linking code from Gitea
sidebarTitle: Gitea
icon: mug-tea
---

import GiteaSchema from '/snippets/schemas/v3/gitea.schema.mdx'

Sourcebot can sync code from Gitea Cloud, and self-hosted.

## Examples

<AccordionGroup>
    <Accordion title="Sync individual repos">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "repos": [
                "sourcebot-dev/sourcebot",
                "getsentry/sentry",
                "torvalds/linux"
            ]
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Sync all repos in a organization">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "orgs": [
                "sourcebot-dev",
                "getsentry",
                "vercel"
            ]
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Sync all repos owned by a user">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "users": [
                "torvalds",
                "ggerganov"
            ]
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Exclude repos from syncing">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            // Include all repos in my-org...
            "orgs": [
                "my-org"
            ],
            // ...except:
            "exclude": {
                // repos that are archived
                "archived": true,
                // repos that are forks
                "forks": true,
                // repos that match these glob patterns
                "repos": [
                    "my-org/repo1",
                    "my-org/repo2",
                    "my-org/sub-org-1/**",
                    "my-org/sub-org-*/**"
                ]
            }
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Authenticating with Gitea

In order to index private repositories, you'll need to generate a Gitea access token. Generate a Gitea access token [here](http://gitea.com/user/settings/applications). At minimum, you'll need to select the `read:repository` scope. `read:user` and `read:organization` are required for the `user` and `org` fields of your config file:

![Gitea Access token creation](/images/gitea_pat_creation.png)

Next, provide the access token via the `token` property, either as an environment variable or a secret:

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Environment Variable">
        <Note>Environment variables are only supported in a [declarative config](/docs/configuration/declarative-config) and cannot be used in the web UI.</Note>

        1. Add the `token` property to your connection config:
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "token": {
                // note: this env var can be named anything. It
                // doesn't need to be `GITEA_TOKEN`.
                "env": "GITEA_TOKEN"
            }
            // .. rest of config ..
        }
        ```

        2. Pass this environment variable each time you run Sourcebot:
        ```bash
        docker run \
            -e GITEA_TOKEN=<PAT> \
            /* additional args */ \
            ghcr.io/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot:latest
        ```
    </Tab>

    <Tab title="Secret">
        <Note>Secrets are only supported when [authentication](/docs/configuration/auth/overview) is enabled.</Note>

        1. Navigate to **Secrets** in settings and create a new secret with your PAT:

        ![](/images/secrets_list.png)

        2. Add the `token` property to your connection config:

        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "token": {
                "secret": "mysecret"
            }
            // .. rest of config ..
        }
        ```

    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Connecting to a custom Gitea

To connect to a custom Gitea deployment, provide the `url` property to your config:

```json
{
    "type": "gitea",
    "url": "https://gitea.example.com"
    // .. rest of config ..
}
```

## Schema reference

<Accordion title="Reference">
[schemas/v3/gitea.json](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/blob/main/schemas/v3/gitea.json)

<GiteaSchema />

</Accordion>

Commit message:

feat: Ask Sourcebot (#392)
Co-authored-by: msukkari <michael.sukkarieh@mail.mcgill.ca>

docs/docs/connections/gitea.mdx, after:

---
title: Linking code from Gitea
sidebarTitle: Gitea
icon: mug-tea
---

import GiteaSchema from '/snippets/schemas/v3/gitea.schema.mdx'

Sourcebot can sync code from Gitea Cloud, and self-hosted.

If you're not familiar with Sourcebot [connections](/docs/connections/overview), please read that overview first.

## Examples

<AccordionGroup>
    <Accordion title="Sync individual repos">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "repos": [
                "sourcebot-dev/sourcebot",
                "getsentry/sentry",
                "torvalds/linux"
            ]
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Sync all repos in a organization">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "orgs": [
                "sourcebot-dev",
                "getsentry",
                "vercel"
            ]
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Sync all repos owned by a user">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "users": [
                "torvalds",
                "ggerganov"
            ]
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion title="Exclude repos from syncing">
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            // Include all repos in my-org...
            "orgs": [
                "my-org"
            ],
            // ...except:
            "exclude": {
                // repos that are archived
                "archived": true,
                // repos that are forks
                "forks": true,
                // repos that match these glob patterns
                "repos": [
                    "my-org/repo1",
                    "my-org/repo2",
                    "my-org/sub-org-1/**",
                    "my-org/sub-org-*/**"
                ]
            }
        }
        ```
    </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Authenticating with Gitea

In order to index private repositories, you'll need to generate a Gitea access token. Generate a Gitea access token [here](http://gitea.com/user/settings/applications). At minimum, you'll need to select the `read:repository` scope. `read:user` and `read:organization` are required for the `user` and `org` fields of your config file:

![Gitea Access token creation](/images/gitea_pat_creation.png)

Next, provide the access token via the `token` property, either as an environment variable or a secret:

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Environment Variable">
        <Note>Environment variables are only supported in a [declarative config](/docs/configuration/declarative-config) and cannot be used in the web UI.</Note>

        1. Add the `token` property to your connection config:
        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "token": {
                // note: this env var can be named anything. It
                // doesn't need to be `GITEA_TOKEN`.
                "env": "GITEA_TOKEN"
            }
            // .. rest of config ..
        }
        ```

        2. Pass this environment variable each time you run Sourcebot:
        ```bash
        docker run \
            -e GITEA_TOKEN=<PAT> \
            /* additional args */ \
            ghcr.io/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot:latest
        ```
    </Tab>

    <Tab title="Secret">
        <Note>Secrets are only supported when [authentication](/docs/configuration/auth/overview) is enabled.</Note>

        1. Navigate to **Secrets** in settings and create a new secret with your PAT:

        ![](/images/secrets_list.png)

        2. Add the `token` property to your connection config:

        ```json
        {
            "type": "gitea",
            "token": {
                "secret": "mysecret"
            }
            // .. rest of config ..
        }
        ```

    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Connecting to a custom Gitea

To connect to a custom Gitea deployment, provide the `url` property to your config:

```json
{
    "type": "gitea",
    "url": "https://gitea.example.com"
    // .. rest of config ..
}
```

## Schema reference

<Accordion title="Reference">
[schemas/v3/gitea.json](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/blob/main/schemas/v3/gitea.json)

<GiteaSchema />

</Accordion>
