docs/docs/features/analytics.mdx, before:

---
title: Analytics
sidebarTitle: Analytics
---

import LicenseKeyRequired from '/snippets/license-key-required.mdx'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

<LicenseKeyRequired />


## Overview

Analytics provides comprehensive insights into your organization's usage of Sourcebot, helping you understand adoption patterns and
quantify the value of time saved.

This dashboard is backed by [audit log](/docs/configuration/audit-logs) events. Please ensure you have audit logging enabled in order to see these insights.

<video
  autoPlay
  muted
  loop
  playsInline
  className="w-full aspect-video"
  src="/images/analytics_demo.mp4"
></video>

## Data Metrics

### Active Users
Tracks the number of unique users who performed any Sourcebot operation within each time period. This metric helps you understand team adoption
and engagement with Sourcebot.

![DAU Chart](/images/dau_chart.png)

### Code Searches
Counts the number of code search operations performed by your team.

![Code Search Chart](/images/code_search_chart.png)

### Code Navigation
Tracks "Go to Definition" and "Find All References" navigation actions. Navigation actions help developers quickly move
between code locations and understand code relationships.

![Code Nav Chart](/images/code_nav_chart.png)

## Cost Savings Calculator

The analytics dashboard includes a built-in cost savings calculator that helps you quantify the ROI of using Sourcebot.

![Cost Savings Chart](/images/cost_savings_chart.png)

Commit message:

feat(analytics): Add Ask chat usage metrics to analytics dashboard (#736)
* fix incorrect total savings calculation

* refactor analytics graphs and add ask audit and graph

* update docs

* changelog

docs/docs/features/analytics.mdx, after:

---
title: Analytics
sidebarTitle: Analytics
---

import LicenseKeyRequired from '/snippets/license-key-required.mdx'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

<LicenseKeyRequired />


## Overview

Analytics provides comprehensive insights into your organization's usage of Sourcebot, helping you understand adoption patterns and
quantify the value of time saved.

This dashboard is backed by [audit log](/docs/configuration/audit-logs) events. Please ensure you have audit logging enabled in order to see these insights.

<video
  autoPlay
  muted
  loop
  playsInline
  className="w-full aspect-video"
  src="/images/analytics_demo.mp4"
></video>

## Data Metrics

### Active Users
Tracks the number of unique users who performed any Sourcebot operation within each time period. This metric helps you understand team adoption
and engagement with Sourcebot.

### Code Searches
Counts the number of code search operations performed by your team.

### Code Navigation
Tracks "Go to Definition" and "Find All References" navigation actions. Navigation actions help developers quickly move
between code locations and understand code relationships.

### Ask Chats
Tracks the number of new Ask chat sessions created by your team.
