docs/docs/features/mcp-server.mdx, before:

---
title: Sourcebot MCP server (@sourcebot/mcp)
sidebarTitle: Sourcebot MCP server
---

The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) is an open standard for providing context to LLMs. The [@sourcebot/mcp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sourcebot/mcp) package is a MCP server that enables LLMs to interface with your Sourcebot instance, enabling MCP clients like Cursor, Vscode, and others to have context over your entire codebase.

## Getting Started

<Steps>
    <Step title="Launch Sourcebot">
        Follow the [deployment guides](/docs/deployment/docker-compose) to launch Sourcebot and get your code indexed. The host url of your instance (e.g., `http://localhost:3000`) is passed to the MCP server via the `SOURCEBOT_HOST` environment variable.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Create an API key">
        Create an API key to allow the MCP server to query your Sourcebot instance. To create an API key, login to your Sourcebot instance and navigate to **Settings -> API Keys**:

        ![API Keys UI](/images/api_key.png)

        Copy the API key and set it as the `SOURCEBOT_API_KEY` environment variable.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Install the MCP server">
        <Note>
            Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) >= v18.0.0 installed.
        </Note>
        Next, we can install the [@sourcebot/mcp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sourcebot/mcp) MCP server into any supported MCP client:
        
        <AccordionGroup>
            <Accordion title="Cursor">
                [Cursor MCP docs](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol)

                Go to: `Settings` -> `Cursor Settings` -> `MCP` -> `Add new global MCP server`

                Paste the following into your `~/.cursor/mcp.json` file. This will install Sourcebot globally within Cursor:

                ```json
                {
                    "mcpServers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest" ],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="Windsurf">
                [Windsurf MCP docs](https://docs.windsurf.com/windsurf/mcp)

                Go to: `Windsurf Settings` -> `Cascade` -> `Add Server` -> `Add Custom Server`

                Paste the following into your `mcp_config.json` file:

                ```json
                {
                    "mcpServers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest" ],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.

            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="VS Code">
                [VS Code MCP docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers)

                Add the following to your [.vscode/mcp.json](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers#_add-an-mcp-server-to-your-workspace) file:
                
                ```json
                {
                    "servers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "type": "stdio",
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest"],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="Claude Code">
                [Claude Code MCP docs](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/tutorials#set-up-model-context-protocol-mcp)

                Run the following command:

                ```sh
                claude mcp add sourcebot -e SOURCEBOT_HOST=http://localhost:3000 -e SOURCEBOT_API_KEY=your-api-key -- npx -y @sourcebot/mcp@latest
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="Claude Desktop">
                [Claude Desktop MCP docs](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user)

                Add the following to your `claude_desktop_config.json`:

                ```json
                {
                    "mcpServers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest"],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
        </AccordionGroup>
    </Step>

    <Step title="Prompt the LLM">
        Tell your LLM to `use sourcebot` when prompting.
    </Step>

</Steps>


## Available Tools


### `search_code`

Searches for code that matches the provided search query as a substring by default, or as a regular expression if `useRegex` is true.

Parameters:
| Name                  | Required | Description                                                                                                          |
|:----------------------|:---------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `query`               | yes      | The search pattern to match against code contents. Do not escape quotes in your query.                               |
| `useRegex`            | no       | Whether to use regular expression matching. When false, substring matching is used (default: false).                 |
| `filterByRepos`       | no       | Scope the search to specific repositories.                                                                           |
| `filterByLanguages`   | no       | Scope the search to specific languages.                                                                              |
| `filterByFilepaths`   | no       | Scope the search to specific filepaths.                                                                              |
| `caseSensitive`       | no       | Whether the search should be case sensitive (default: false).                                                        |
| `includeCodeSnippets` | no       | Whether to include code snippets in the response (default: false).                                                   |
| `ref`                 | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to search on. If not provided, defaults to the default branch.                        |
| `maxTokens`           | no       | The maximum number of tokens to return (default: 10000).                                                             |


### `list_repos`

Lists repositories indexed by Sourcebot with optional filtering and pagination.

Parameters:
| Name        | Required | Description                                                                     |
|:------------|:---------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `query`     | no       | Filter repositories by name (case-insensitive).                                 |
| `page`      | no       | Page number for pagination (min 1, default: 1).                                 |
| `perPage`   | no       | Results per page for pagination (min 1, max 100, default: 30).                  |
| `sort`      | no       | Sort repositories by 'name' or 'pushed' (most recent commit). Default: 'name'. |
| `direction` | no       | Sort direction: 'asc' or 'desc' (default: 'asc').                               |


### `read_file`

Reads the source code for a given file.

Parameters:
| Name   | Required | Description                                                                                            |
|:-------|:---------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `repo` | yes      | The repository name.                                                                                   |
| `path` | yes      | The path to the file.                                                                                  |
| `ref`  | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to fetch the source code for. If not provided, uses the default branch. |


### `list_commits`

Get a list of commits for a given repository.

Parameters:
| Name      | Required | Description                                                                                                            |
|:----------|:---------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `repo`    | yes      | The name of the repository to list commits for.                                                                        |
| `query`   | no       | Search query to filter commits by message content (case-insensitive).                                                  |
| `since`   | no       | Show commits more recent than this date. Supports ISO 8601 (e.g., '2024-01-01') or relative formats (e.g., '30 days ago'). |
| `until`   | no       | Show commits older than this date. Supports ISO 8601 (e.g., '2024-12-31') or relative formats (e.g., 'yesterday').     |
| `author`  | no       | Filter commits by author name or email (case-insensitive).                                                             |
| `ref`     | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to list commits of. If not provided, uses the default branch.                           |
| `page`    | no       | Page number for pagination (min 1, default: 1).                                                                        |
| `perPage` | no       | Results per page for pagination (min 1, max 100, default: 50).                                                         |


### `list_language_models`

Lists the available language models configured on the Sourcebot instance. Use this to discover which models can be specified when calling `ask_codebase`.

Parameters:

This tool takes no parameters.


### `ask_codebase`

Ask a natural language question about the codebase. This tool uses an AI agent to autonomously search code, read files, and find symbol references/definitions to answer your question. Returns a detailed answer in markdown format with code references, plus a link to view the full research session in the Sourcebot web UI.

Parameters:
| Name            | Required | Description                                                                                                                                    |
|:----------------|:---------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `query`         | yes      | The query to ask about the codebase.                                                                                                           |
| `repos`         | no       | The repositories that are accessible to the agent during the chat. If not provided, all repositories are accessible.                           |
| `languageModel` | no       | The language model to use for answering the question. Object with `provider` and `model`. If not provided, defaults to the first model in the config. Use `list_language_models` to see available options. |


## Environment Variables

| Name                     | Default                | Description                                       |
|:-------------------------|:-----------------------|:--------------------------------------------------|
| `SOURCEBOT_HOST`         | http://localhost:3000  | URL of your Sourcebot instance.                   |
| `SOURCEBOT_API_KEY`      | -                      | Sourcebot API key.                                |
| `DEFAULT_MINIMUM_TOKENS` | 10000                  | Minimum number of tokens to return in responses.  |
| `DEFAULT_MATCHES`        | 10000                  | Number of code matches to fetch per search.       |
| `DEFAULT_CONTEXT_LINES`  | 5                      | Lines of context to include above/below matches.  |

Commit message:

feat(mcp): add list_tree tool
This tool allows an agent to list files and directories from a
repository path. This can be used as a simple directory listing tool or
for a directory tree tool by specifying a depth > 1

docs/docs/features/mcp-server.mdx, after:

---
title: Sourcebot MCP server (@sourcebot/mcp)
sidebarTitle: Sourcebot MCP server
---

The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) is an open standard for providing context to LLMs. The [@sourcebot/mcp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sourcebot/mcp) package is a MCP server that enables LLMs to interface with your Sourcebot instance, enabling MCP clients like Cursor, Vscode, and others to have context over your entire codebase.

## Getting Started

<Steps>
    <Step title="Launch Sourcebot">
        Follow the [deployment guides](/docs/deployment/docker-compose) to launch Sourcebot and get your code indexed. The host url of your instance (e.g., `http://localhost:3000`) is passed to the MCP server via the `SOURCEBOT_HOST` environment variable.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Create an API key">
        Create an API key to allow the MCP server to query your Sourcebot instance. To create an API key, login to your Sourcebot instance and navigate to **Settings -> API Keys**:

        ![API Keys UI](/images/api_key.png)

        Copy the API key and set it as the `SOURCEBOT_API_KEY` environment variable.
    </Step>

    <Step title="Install the MCP server">
        <Note>
            Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) >= v18.0.0 installed.
        </Note>
        Next, we can install the [@sourcebot/mcp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sourcebot/mcp) MCP server into any supported MCP client:
        
        <AccordionGroup>
            <Accordion title="Cursor">
                [Cursor MCP docs](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol)

                Go to: `Settings` -> `Cursor Settings` -> `MCP` -> `Add new global MCP server`

                Paste the following into your `~/.cursor/mcp.json` file. This will install Sourcebot globally within Cursor:

                ```json
                {
                    "mcpServers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest" ],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="Windsurf">
                [Windsurf MCP docs](https://docs.windsurf.com/windsurf/mcp)

                Go to: `Windsurf Settings` -> `Cascade` -> `Add Server` -> `Add Custom Server`

                Paste the following into your `mcp_config.json` file:

                ```json
                {
                    "mcpServers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest" ],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.

            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="VS Code">
                [VS Code MCP docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers)

                Add the following to your [.vscode/mcp.json](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers#_add-an-mcp-server-to-your-workspace) file:
                
                ```json
                {
                    "servers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "type": "stdio",
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest"],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="Claude Code">
                [Claude Code MCP docs](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/tutorials#set-up-model-context-protocol-mcp)

                Run the following command:

                ```sh
                claude mcp add sourcebot -e SOURCEBOT_HOST=http://localhost:3000 -e SOURCEBOT_API_KEY=your-api-key -- npx -y @sourcebot/mcp@latest
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
            <Accordion title="Claude Desktop">
                [Claude Desktop MCP docs](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user)

                Add the following to your `claude_desktop_config.json`:

                ```json
                {
                    "mcpServers": {
                        "sourcebot": {
                            "command": "npx",
                            "args": ["-y", "@sourcebot/mcp@latest"],
                            "env": {
                                "SOURCEBOT_HOST": "http://localhost:3000",
                                "SOURCEBOT_API_KEY": "your-api-key"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
                ```

                Replace `http://localhost:3000` with wherever your Sourcebot instance is hosted.
            </Accordion>
        </AccordionGroup>
    </Step>

    <Step title="Prompt the LLM">
        Tell your LLM to `use sourcebot` when prompting.
    </Step>

</Steps>


## Available Tools


### `search_code`

Searches for code that matches the provided search query as a substring by default, or as a regular expression if `useRegex` is true.

Parameters:
| Name                  | Required | Description                                                                                                          |
|:----------------------|:---------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `query`               | yes      | The search pattern to match against code contents. Do not escape quotes in your query.                               |
| `useRegex`            | no       | Whether to use regular expression matching. When false, substring matching is used (default: false).                 |
| `filterByRepos`       | no       | Scope the search to specific repositories.                                                                           |
| `filterByLanguages`   | no       | Scope the search to specific languages.                                                                              |
| `filterByFilepaths`   | no       | Scope the search to specific filepaths.                                                                              |
| `caseSensitive`       | no       | Whether the search should be case sensitive (default: false).                                                        |
| `includeCodeSnippets` | no       | Whether to include code snippets in the response (default: false).                                                   |
| `ref`                 | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to search on. If not provided, defaults to the default branch.                        |
| `maxTokens`           | no       | The maximum number of tokens to return (default: 10000).                                                             |


### `list_repos`

Lists repositories indexed by Sourcebot with optional filtering and pagination.

Parameters:
| Name        | Required | Description                                                                     |
|:------------|:---------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `query`     | no       | Filter repositories by name (case-insensitive).                                 |
| `page`      | no       | Page number for pagination (min 1, default: 1).                                 |
| `perPage`   | no       | Results per page for pagination (min 1, max 100, default: 30).                  |
| `sort`      | no       | Sort repositories by 'name' or 'pushed' (most recent commit). Default: 'name'. |
| `direction` | no       | Sort direction: 'asc' or 'desc' (default: 'asc').                               |


### `read_file`

Reads the source code for a given file.

Parameters:
| Name   | Required | Description                                                                                            |
|:-------|:---------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `repo` | yes      | The repository name.                                                                                   |
| `path` | yes      | The path to the file.                                                                                  |
| `ref`  | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to fetch the source code for. If not provided, uses the default branch. |


### `list_tree`

Lists files and directories from a repository path. Can be used as a directory listing tool (`depth: 1`) or a repo-tree tool (`depth > 1`).

Parameters:
| Name                 | Required | Description                                                                                                   |
|:---------------------|:---------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `repo`               | yes      | The name of the repository to list files from.                                                               |
| `path`               | no       | Directory path (relative to repo root). If omitted, the repo root is used.                                  |
| `ref`                | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to list files from. If not provided, uses the default branch.                |
| `depth`              | no       | Number of directory levels to traverse below `path` (min 1, max 10, default: 1).                           |
| `includeFiles`       | no       | Whether to include file entries in the output (default: true).                                               |
| `includeDirectories` | no       | Whether to include directory entries in the output (default: true).                                          |
| `maxEntries`         | no       | Maximum number of entries to return before truncating (min 1, max 10000, default: 1000).                   |


### `list_commits`

Get a list of commits for a given repository.

Parameters:
| Name      | Required | Description                                                                                                            |
|:----------|:---------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `repo`    | yes      | The name of the repository to list commits for.                                                                        |
| `query`   | no       | Search query to filter commits by message content (case-insensitive).                                                  |
| `since`   | no       | Show commits more recent than this date. Supports ISO 8601 (e.g., '2024-01-01') or relative formats (e.g., '30 days ago'). |
| `until`   | no       | Show commits older than this date. Supports ISO 8601 (e.g., '2024-12-31') or relative formats (e.g., 'yesterday').     |
| `author`  | no       | Filter commits by author name or email (case-insensitive).                                                             |
| `ref`     | no       | Commit SHA, branch or tag name to list commits of. If not provided, uses the default branch.                           |
| `page`    | no       | Page number for pagination (min 1, default: 1).                                                                        |
| `perPage` | no       | Results per page for pagination (min 1, max 100, default: 50).                                                         |


### `list_language_models`

Lists the available language models configured on the Sourcebot instance. Use this to discover which models can be specified when calling `ask_codebase`.

Parameters:

This tool takes no parameters.


### `ask_codebase`

Ask a natural language question about the codebase. This tool uses an AI agent to autonomously search code, read files, and find symbol references/definitions to answer your question. Returns a detailed answer in markdown format with code references, plus a link to view the full research session in the Sourcebot web UI.

Parameters:
| Name            | Required | Description                                                                                                                                    |
|:----------------|:---------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `query`         | yes      | The query to ask about the codebase.                                                                                                           |
| `repos`         | no       | The repositories that are accessible to the agent during the chat. If not provided, all repositories are accessible.                           |
| `languageModel` | no       | The language model to use for answering the question. Object with `provider` and `model`. If not provided, defaults to the first model in the config. Use `list_language_models` to see available options. |


## Environment Variables

| Name                     | Default                | Description                                       |
|:-------------------------|:-----------------------|:--------------------------------------------------|
| `SOURCEBOT_HOST`         | http://localhost:3000  | URL of your Sourcebot instance.                   |
| `SOURCEBOT_API_KEY`      | -                      | Sourcebot API key.                                |
| `DEFAULT_MINIMUM_TOKENS` | 10000                  | Minimum number of tokens to return in responses.  |
| `DEFAULT_MATCHES`        | 10000                  | Number of code matches to fetch per search.       |
| `DEFAULT_CONTEXT_LINES`  | 5                      | Lines of context to include above/below matches.  |
