docs/docs/features/permission-syncing.mdx, before:

---
title: "Permission syncing"
sidebarTitle: "Permission syncing"
---

import LicenseKeyRequired from '/snippets/license-key-required.mdx'

<LicenseKeyRequired />

# Overview

Permission syncing allows you to sync Access Permission Lists (ACLs) from a code host to Sourcebot. When configured, users signed into Sourcebot will only be able to access repositories
that they have access to on the code host. Practically, this means:

- Code Search results will only include repositories that the user has access to.
- Code navigation results will only include repositories that the user has access to.
- MCP results will only include results from repositories the user has access to.
- Ask Sourcebot (and the underlying LLM) will only have access to repositories that the user has access to.
- File browsing is scoped to the repositories that the user has access to.

Permission syncing can be enabled by setting the `EXPERIMENT_EE_PERMISSION_SYNC_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`.

```bash
docker run \
    -e EXPERIMENT_EE_PERMISSION_SYNC_ENABLED=true \
    /* additional args */ \
    ghcr.io/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot:latest
```

## Platform support

We are actively working on supporting more code hosts. If you'd like to see a specific code host supported, please [reach out](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact).

| Platform | Permission syncing |
|:----------|------------------------------|
| [GitHub (GHEC & GHEC Server)](/docs/features/permission-syncing#github) | ✅ |
| [GitLab (Self-managed & Cloud)](/docs/features/permission-syncing#gitlab) | ✅ |
| Bitbucket Cloud | 🛑 |
| Bitbucket Data Center | 🛑 |
| Gitea | 🛑 |
| Gerrit | 🛑 |
| Generic git host | 🛑 |

# Getting started

## GitHub

Prerequisite: Configure GitHub as an [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp).

Permission syncing works with **GitHub.com**, **GitHub Enterprise Cloud**, and **GitHub Enterprise Server**. For organization-owned repositories, users that have **read-only** access (or above) via the following methods will have their access synced to Sourcebot:
- Outside collaborators
- Organization members that are direct collaborators
- Organization members with access through team memberships
- Organization members with access through default organization permissions
- Organization owners.

**Notes:**
- A GitHub [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp) must be configured to (1) correlate a Sourcebot user with a GitHub user, and (2) to list repositories that the user has access to for [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works).
- OAuth tokens must assume the `repo` scope in order to use the [List repositories for the authenticated user API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?apiVersion=2022-11-28#list-repositories-for-the-authenticated-user) during [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works). Sourcebot **will only** use this token for **reads**.

## GitLab

Prerequisite: Configure GitLab as an [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp).

Permission syncing works with **GitLab Self-managed** and **GitLab Cloud**. Users with **Guest** role or above with membership to a group or project will have their access synced to Sourcebot. Both direct and indirect membership to a group or project will be synced with Sourcebot. For more details, see the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/user/project/members/#membership-types).


**Notes:**
- A GitLab [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp) must be configured to (1) correlate a Sourcebot user with a GitLab user, and (2) to list repositories that the user has access to for [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works).
- OAuth tokens require the `read_api` scope in order to use the [List projects for the authenticated user API](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html#list-all-projects) during [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works).


# How it works

Permission syncing works by periodically syncing ACLs from the code host(s) to Sourcebot to build an internal mapping between Users and Repositories. This mapping is hydrated in two directions:
- **User driven** : fetches the list of all repositories that a given user has access to.
- **Repo driven** : fetches the list of all users that have access to a given repository.

User driven and repo driven syncing occurs every 24 hours by default. These intervals can be configured using the following settings in the [config file](/docs/configuration/config-file):
| Setting                                         | Type    | Default    | Minimum |
|-------------------------------------------------|---------|------------|---------|
| `experiment_repoDrivenPermissionSyncIntervalMs` | number  | 24 hours   | 1       |
| `experiment_userDrivenPermissionSyncIntervalMs` | number  | 24 hours   | 1       |

Commit message:

Update permission syncing docs for self-hosted code hosts (#722)

docs/docs/features/permission-syncing.mdx, after:

---
title: "Permission syncing"
sidebarTitle: "Permission syncing"
---

import LicenseKeyRequired from '/snippets/license-key-required.mdx'

<LicenseKeyRequired />

# Overview

Permission syncing allows you to sync Access Permission Lists (ACLs) from a code host to Sourcebot. When configured, users signed into Sourcebot will only be able to access repositories
that they have access to on the code host. Practically, this means:

- Code Search results will only include repositories that the user has access to.
- Code navigation results will only include repositories that the user has access to.
- MCP results will only include results from repositories the user has access to.
- Ask Sourcebot (and the underlying LLM) will only have access to repositories that the user has access to.
- File browsing is scoped to the repositories that the user has access to.

Permission syncing can be enabled by setting the `EXPERIMENT_EE_PERMISSION_SYNC_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`.

```bash
docker run \
    -e EXPERIMENT_EE_PERMISSION_SYNC_ENABLED=true \
    /* additional args */ \
    ghcr.io/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot:latest
```

## Platform support

We are actively working on supporting more code hosts. If you'd like to see a specific code host supported, please [reach out](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact).

| Platform | Permission syncing |
|:----------|------------------------------|
| [GitHub (GHEC & GHEC Server)](/docs/features/permission-syncing#github) | ✅ |
| [GitLab (Self-managed & Cloud)](/docs/features/permission-syncing#gitlab) | ✅ |
| Bitbucket Cloud | 🛑 |
| Bitbucket Data Center | 🛑 |
| Gitea | 🛑 |
| Gerrit | 🛑 |
| Generic git host | 🛑 |

# Getting started

## GitHub

Prerequisites:
- Configure GitHub as an [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp).
- **If you are using a self-hosted GitHub instance**, you must also set `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` to the base URL of your GitHub instance (e.g. `https://github.example.com`).

Permission syncing works with **GitHub.com**, **GitHub Enterprise Cloud**, and **GitHub Enterprise Server**. For organization-owned repositories, users that have **read-only** access (or above) via the following methods will have their access synced to Sourcebot:
- Outside collaborators
- Organization members that are direct collaborators
- Organization members with access through team memberships
- Organization members with access through default organization permissions
- Organization owners.

**Notes:**
- A GitHub [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp) must be configured to (1) correlate a Sourcebot user with a GitHub user, and (2) to list repositories that the user has access to for [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works).
- OAuth tokens must assume the `repo` scope in order to use the [List repositories for the authenticated user API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?apiVersion=2022-11-28#list-repositories-for-the-authenticated-user) during [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works). Sourcebot **will only** use this token for **reads**.

## GitLab

Prerequisites:
- Configure GitLab as an [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp).
- **If you are using a self-hosted GitLab instance**, you must also set `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` to the base URL of your GitLab instance (e.g. `https://gitlab.example.com`).

Permission syncing works with **GitLab Self-managed** and **GitLab Cloud**. Users with **Guest** role or above with membership to a group or project will have their access synced to Sourcebot. Both direct and indirect membership to a group or project will be synced with Sourcebot. For more details, see the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/user/project/members/#membership-types).


**Notes:**
- A GitLab [external identity provider](/docs/configuration/idp) must be configured to (1) correlate a Sourcebot user with a GitLab user, and (2) to list repositories that the user has access to for [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works).
- OAuth tokens require the `read_api` scope in order to use the [List projects for the authenticated user API](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html#list-all-projects) during [User driven syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing#how-it-works).


# How it works

Permission syncing works by periodically syncing ACLs from the code host(s) to Sourcebot to build an internal mapping between Users and Repositories. This mapping is hydrated in two directions:
- **User driven** : fetches the list of all repositories that a given user has access to.
- **Repo driven** : fetches the list of all users that have access to a given repository.

User driven and repo driven syncing occurs every 24 hours by default. These intervals can be configured using the following settings in the [config file](/docs/configuration/config-file):
| Setting                                         | Type    | Default    | Minimum |
|-------------------------------------------------|---------|------------|---------|
| `experiment_repoDrivenPermissionSyncIntervalMs` | number  | 24 hours   | 1       |
| `experiment_userDrivenPermissionSyncIntervalMs` | number  | 24 hours   | 1       |
