docs/self-hosting/more/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication
sidebarTitle: Authentication
---

Sourcebot has built-in authentication that gates access to your organization. OAuth, email codes, and email / password are supported.

![Login Page](/images/login.png)


# Authentication Providers

To enable an authentication provider in Sourcebot, configure the required environment variables for the provider. Under the hood, Sourcebot uses Auth.js which supports [many providers](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth). Submit a [feature request on GitHub](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions/categories/ideas) if you want us to add support for a specific provider.


## Email / Password
---
Email / password authentication is enabled by default. It can be **disabled** by setting `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` to `false`.

## Email codes
---
Email codes are 6 digit codes sent to a provided email. Email codes are enabled when transactional emails are configured using the following environment variables:

- `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL`
- `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS`


See [transactional emails](/self-hosting/features/transactional-emails) for more details.

## GitHub
---

[Auth.js GitHub Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/github)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

## Google
---

[Auth.js Google Provider Docs](https://next-auth.js.org/providers/google)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

---

# Disable Authentication

Authentication can be disabled by setting the `SOURCEBOT_AUTH_ENABLED` environment variable to `false`. When authentication is disabled:

- Your Sourcebot instance can be accessed without signing in.
- All organization & team-management features are disabled. (e.g., invites, organization settings, etc.)
- Connections management via the UI is disabled, and can only be [configured declaratively](/self-hosting/features/declarative-config).


Note that this feature is **only** available when `SOURCEBOT_TENANCY_MODE` is set to `single`.


# Troubleshooting

- If you experience issues logging in, logging out, or accessing an organization you should have access to, try clearing your cookies & performing a full page refresh (`Cmd/Ctrl + Shift + R` on most browsers).

Commit message:

update auth and email page, add multi tenancy page

docs/self-hosting/more/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication
sidebarTitle: Authentication
---

<Note>SSO is currently not supported. If you'd like SSO, please reach out using our [contact form](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact)</Note>
<Warning>If you're switching from non-auth, delete the Sourcebot cache (the `.sourcebot` folder) before starting.</Warning>

Sourcebot has built-in authentication that gates access to your organization. OAuth, email codes, and email / password are supported. To enable authentication, set the `SOURCEBOT_AUTH_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`.
When authentication is enabled:

- Connection managment happens through the UI
- Members must be invited to an organization to gain access
- If you're in single-tenant mode, the first user to register will be made the owner of the default organization. Check out the [roles page](/docs/more/roles-and-permissions) for more info on the different roles and permissions

![Login Page](/images/login.png)


# Authentication Providers

To enable an authentication provider in Sourcebot, configure the required environment variables for the provider. Under the hood, Sourcebot uses Auth.js which supports [many providers](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth). Submit a [feature request on GitHub](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions/categories/ideas) if you want us to add support for a specific provider.


## Email / Password
---
Email / password authentication is enabled by default. It can be **disabled** by setting `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` to `false`.

## Email codes
---
Email codes are 6 digit codes sent to a provided email. Email codes are enabled when transactional emails are configured using the following environment variables:

- `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL`
- `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS`


See [transactional emails](/self-hosting/features/transactional-emails) for more details.

## GitHub
---

[Auth.js GitHub Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/github)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

## Google
---

[Auth.js Google Provider Docs](https://next-auth.js.org/providers/google)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

---

# Troubleshooting

- If you experience issues logging in, logging out, or accessing an organization you should have access to, try clearing your cookies & performing a full page refresh (`Cmd/Ctrl + Shift + R` on most browsers).
- Still not working? Reach out to us on our [discord](https://discord.com/invite/6Fhp27x7Pb) or [github discussions](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions)
