docs/docs/configuration/auth/access-settings.mdx, before:

---
title: Access Settings
sidebarTitle: Access settings
---

There are various settings to control how users access your Sourcebot deployment.

# Anonymous access

<Note>Anonymous access cannot be enabled if you have an enterprise license. If you have any questions about this restriction [reach out to us](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact).</Note>

By default, your Sourcebot deployment is gated with a login page. If you'd like users to access the deployment anonymously, you can enable anonymous access. 

This can be enabled by navigating to **Settings -> Access** or by setting the `FORCE_ENABLE_ANONYMOUS_ACCESS` environment variable.

When accessing Sourcebot anonymously, a user's permissions are limited to that of the  [Guest](/docs/configuration/auth/roles-and-permissions) role.

# Member Approval 

By default, Sourcebot requires new members to be approved by the owner of the deployment. This section explains how approvals work and how
to configure this behavior.

### Configuration
Member approval can be configured by the owner of the deployment by navigating to **Settings -> Members**:

![Member Approval Toggle](/images/member_approval_toggle.png)

### Managing Requests

If member approval is enabled, new members will be asked to submit a join request after signing up. They will not have access to the Sourcebot deployment
until this request is approved by the owner.

The owner can see and manage all pending join requests by navigating to **Settings -> Members**.

## Invite link

If member approval is required, an owner of the deployment can enable an invite link. When enabled, users
can use this invite link to register and be automatically added to the organization without approval:

![Invite Link Toggle](/images/invite_link_toggle.png)

Commit message:

[config] new env var: `REQUIRE_APPROVAL_NEW_MEMBERS` to set requiring approval via config vs. UI toggle only

docs/docs/configuration/auth/access-settings.mdx, after:

---
title: Access Settings
sidebarTitle: Access settings
---

There are various settings to control how users access your Sourcebot deployment.

# Anonymous access

<Note>Anonymous access cannot be enabled if you have an enterprise license. If you have any questions about this restriction [reach out to us](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact).</Note>

By default, your Sourcebot deployment is gated with a login page. If you'd like users to access the deployment anonymously, you can enable anonymous access. 

This can be enabled by navigating to **Settings -> Access** or by setting the `FORCE_ENABLE_ANONYMOUS_ACCESS` environment variable.

When accessing Sourcebot anonymously, a user's permissions are limited to that of the  [Guest](/docs/configuration/auth/roles-and-permissions) role.

# Member Approval 

By default, Sourcebot requires new members to be approved by the owner of the deployment. This section explains how approvals work and how
to configure this behavior.

### Configuration
Member approval can be configured by the owner of the deployment by navigating to **Settings -> Access**, or by setting the `REQUIRE_APPROVAL_NEW_MEMBERS` environment variable. When the environment variable is set, the UI toggle is disabled and the setting is controlled by the environment variable.

![Member Approval Toggle](/images/member_approval_toggle.png)

### Managing Requests

If member approval is enabled, new members will be asked to submit a join request after signing up. They will not have access to the Sourcebot deployment
until this request is approved by the owner.

The owner can see and manage all pending join requests by navigating to **Settings -> Members**.

## Invite link

If member approval is required, an owner of the deployment can enable an invite link. When enabled, users
can use this invite link to register and be automatically added to the organization without approval:

![Invite Link Toggle](/images/invite_link_toggle.png)
