docs/docs/configuration/auth/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
---

<Warning>If you're deploying Sourcebot behind a domain, you must set the [AUTH_URL](/docs/configuration/environment-variables) environment variable.</Warning>

Sourcebot has built-in authentication that gates access to your organization. OAuth, email codes, and email / password are supported. 

The first account that's registered on a Sourcebot deployment is made the owner. All other users who register must be [approved](/docs/configuration/auth/overview#approving-new-members) by the owner.

![Login Page](/images/login.png)


# Approving New Members

All account registrations after the first account must be approved by the owner. The owner can see all join requests by going into **Settings -> Members**.

If you have an [enterprise license](/docs/license-key), you can enable [AUTH_EE_ENABLE_JIT_PROVISIONING](/docs/configuration/auth/overview#enterprise-authentication-providers) to 
have Sourcebot accounts automatically created and approved on registration.

You can setup emails to be sent when new join requests are created/approved by configurating [transactional emails](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails)
# Authentication Providers

To enable an authentication provider in Sourcebot, configure the required environment variables for the provider. Under the hood, Sourcebot uses Auth.js which supports [many providers](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth). Submit a [feature request on GitHub](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions/categories/ideas) if you want us to add support for a specific provider.

## Core Authentication Providers

### Email / Password
---
Email / password authentication is enabled by default. It can be **disabled** by setting `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` to `false`.

### Email codes
---
Email codes are 6 digit codes sent to a provided email. Email codes are enabled when transactional emails are configured using the following environment variables:

- `AUTH_EMAIL_CODE_LOGIN_ENABLED`
- `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL`
- `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS`


See [transactional emails](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more details.

## Enterprise Authentication Providers

The following authentication providers require an [enterprise license](/docs/license-key) to be enabled.

By default, a new user registering using these providers must have their join request accepted by the owner of the organization to join. To allow a user to join automatically when
they register for the first time, set the `AUTH_EE_ENABLE_JIT_PROVISIONING` environment variable to `true`. 

### GitHub
---

[Auth.js GitHub Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/github)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitHub Enterprise (defaults to https://github.com)

### GitLab
---

[Auth.js GitLab Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/gitlab)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitLab instance (defaults to https://gitlab.com)

### Google
---

[Auth.js Google Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/google)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

### Okta
---

[Auth.js Okta Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/okta)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_ISSUER`

### Keycloak
---

[Auth.js Keycloak Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/keycloak)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER`

### Microsoft Entra ID

[Auth.js Microsoft Entra ID Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER`

---

# Troubleshooting

- If you experience issues logging in, logging out, or accessing an organization you should have access to, try clearing your cookies & performing a full page refresh (`Cmd/Ctrl + Shift + R` on most browsers).
- Still not working? Reach out to us on our [discord](https://discord.com/invite/6Fhp27x7Pb) or [github discussions](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions)

Commit message:

Add support for GCP IAP JIT account provisioning (#330)
* initial gcp iap implementation

* gcp iap working

* add docs for gcp iap

* feedback

* changelog

docs/docs/configuration/auth/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
---

<Warning>If you're deploying Sourcebot behind a domain, you must set the [AUTH_URL](/docs/configuration/environment-variables) environment variable.</Warning>

Sourcebot has built-in authentication that gates access to your organization. OAuth, email codes, and email / password are supported. 

The first account that's registered on a Sourcebot deployment is made the owner. All other users who register must be [approved](/docs/configuration/auth/overview#approving-new-members) by the owner.

![Login Page](/images/login.png)


# Approving New Members

All account registrations after the first account must be approved by the owner. The owner can see all join requests by going into **Settings -> Members**.

If you have an [enterprise license](/docs/license-key), you can enable [AUTH_EE_ENABLE_JIT_PROVISIONING](/docs/configuration/auth/overview#enterprise-authentication-providers) to 
have Sourcebot accounts automatically created and approved on registration.

You can setup emails to be sent when new join requests are created/approved by configurating [transactional emails](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails)
# Authentication Providers

To enable an authentication provider in Sourcebot, configure the required environment variables for the provider. Under the hood, Sourcebot uses Auth.js which supports [many providers](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth). Submit a [feature request on GitHub](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions/categories/ideas) if you want us to add support for a specific provider.

## Core Authentication Providers

### Email / Password
---
Email / password authentication is enabled by default. It can be **disabled** by setting `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` to `false`.

### Email codes
---
Email codes are 6 digit codes sent to a provided email. Email codes are enabled when transactional emails are configured using the following environment variables:

- `AUTH_EMAIL_CODE_LOGIN_ENABLED`
- `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL`
- `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS`


See [transactional emails](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more details.

## Enterprise Authentication Providers

The following authentication providers require an [enterprise license](/docs/license-key) to be enabled.

By default, a new user registering using these providers must have their join request accepted by the owner of the organization to join. To allow a user to join automatically when
they register for the first time, set the `AUTH_EE_ENABLE_JIT_PROVISIONING` environment variable to `true`. 

### GitHub
---

[Auth.js GitHub Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/github)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitHub Enterprise (defaults to https://github.com)

### GitLab
---

[Auth.js GitLab Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/gitlab)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitLab instance (defaults to https://gitlab.com)

### Google
---

[Auth.js Google Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/google)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

### GCP IAP
---

Custom provider built to enable automatic Sourcebot account registration/login when using GCP IAP.

**Required environment variables**
- `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_ENABLED`
- `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_AUDIENCE`
    - This can be found by selecting the ⋮ icon next to the IAP-enabled backend service and pressing `Get JWT audience code`

### Okta
---

[Auth.js Okta Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/okta)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_ISSUER`

### Keycloak
---

[Auth.js Keycloak Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/keycloak)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER`

### Microsoft Entra ID

[Auth.js Microsoft Entra ID Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER`

---

# Troubleshooting

- If you experience issues logging in, logging out, or accessing an organization you should have access to, try clearing your cookies & performing a full page refresh (`Cmd/Ctrl + Shift + R` on most browsers).
- Still not working? Reach out to us on our [discord](https://discord.com/invite/6Fhp27x7Pb) or [github discussions](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot/discussions)
