docs/docs/configuration/auth/providers.mdx, before:

---
title: Providers
---

Sourcebot supports a wide range of different authentication providers through it's integration with [Auth.js](https://authjs.dev/). This page
highlights how to configure the various supported providers.

If theres an authentication provider you'd like us to support, please [reach out](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact).

# Core Authentication Providers

### Email / Password
---
Email / password authentication is enabled by default. It can be **disabled** by setting `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` to `false`.

### Email codes
---
Email codes are 6 digit codes sent to a provided email. Email codes are enabled when transactional emails are configured using the following environment variables:

- `AUTH_EMAIL_CODE_LOGIN_ENABLED`
- `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL`
- `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS`


See [transactional emails](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more details.

# Enterprise Authentication Providers

The following authentication providers require an [enterprise license](/docs/license-key) to be enabled.

### GitHub
---

[Auth.js GitHub Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/github)

Authentication using both a **GitHub OAuth App** and a **GitHub App** is supported. In both cases, you must provide Sourcebot the `CLIENT_ID` and `SECRET_ID` and configure the 
callback URL correctly (more info in Auth.js docs). 

When using a **GitHub App** for auth, enable the following permissions:
- `“Email addresses” account permissions (read)`
- `"Metadata" repository permissions (read)` (only needed if enabling [permission syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing))

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitHub Enterprise (defaults to https://github.com)

### GitLab
---

[Auth.js GitLab Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/gitlab)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitLab instance (defaults to https://gitlab.com)

### Google
---

[Auth.js Google Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/google)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

### GCP IAP
---

<Note>If you're running Sourcebot in an environment that blocks egress, make sure you allow the [IAP IP ranges](https://www.gstatic.com/ipranges/goog.json)</Note>

Custom provider built to enable automatic Sourcebot account registration/login when using GCP IAP.

**Required environment variables**
- `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_ENABLED`
- `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_AUDIENCE`
    - This can be found by selecting the ⋮ icon next to the IAP-enabled backend service and pressing `Get JWT audience code`

### Okta
---

[Auth.js Okta Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/okta)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_ISSUER`

### Keycloak
---

[Auth.js Keycloak Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/keycloak)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER`

### Microsoft Entra ID

[Auth.js Microsoft Entra ID Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER`

---

Commit message:

feat(ee): GitLab permission syncing (#585)

docs/docs/configuration/auth/providers.mdx, after:

---
title: Providers
---

Sourcebot supports a wide range of different authentication providers through it's integration with [Auth.js](https://authjs.dev/). This page
highlights how to configure the various supported providers.

If theres an authentication provider you'd like us to support, please [reach out](https://www.sourcebot.dev/contact).

# Core Authentication Providers

### Email / Password
---
Email / password authentication is enabled by default. It can be **disabled** by setting `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` to `false`.

### Email codes
---
Email codes are 6 digit codes sent to a provided email. Email codes are enabled when transactional emails are configured using the following environment variables:

- `AUTH_EMAIL_CODE_LOGIN_ENABLED`
- `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL`
- `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS`


See [transactional emails](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more details.

# Enterprise Authentication Providers

The following authentication providers require an [enterprise license](/docs/license-key) to be enabled.

### GitHub
---

[Auth.js GitHub Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/github)

Authentication using both a **GitHub OAuth App** and a **GitHub App** is supported. In both cases, you must provide Sourcebot the `CLIENT_ID` and `SECRET_ID` and configure the 
callback URL correctly (more info in Auth.js docs). 

When using a **GitHub App** for auth, enable the following permissions:
- `“Email addresses” account permissions (read)`
- `"Metadata" repository permissions (read)` (only needed if enabling [permission syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing))

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitHub Enterprise (defaults to https://github.com)

### GitLab
---

[Auth.js GitLab Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/gitlab)

Authentication using GitLab is supported via a [OAuth2.0 app](https://docs.gitlab.com/integration/oauth_provider/#create-an-instance-wide-application) installed on the GitLab instance. Follow the instructions in the [GitLab docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/integration/oauth_provider/) to create an app. The callback URL should be configurd to `<sourcebot_deployment_url>/api/auth/callback/gitlab`, and the following scopes need to be set:

| Scope      | Required | Notes                                                                                              |
|------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| read_user  | Yes      | Allows Sourcebot to read basic user information required for authentication.                       |
| read_api   | Conditional | Required **only** when [permission syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing) is enabled. Enables Sourcebot to list all repositories and projects for the authenticated user. |


**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET`

Optional environment variables:
- `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` - Base URL for GitLab instance (defaults to https://gitlab.com)

### Google
---

[Auth.js Google Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/google)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

### GCP IAP
---

<Note>If you're running Sourcebot in an environment that blocks egress, make sure you allow the [IAP IP ranges](https://www.gstatic.com/ipranges/goog.json)</Note>

Custom provider built to enable automatic Sourcebot account registration/login when using GCP IAP.

**Required environment variables**
- `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_ENABLED`
- `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_AUDIENCE`
    - This can be found by selecting the ⋮ icon next to the IAP-enabled backend service and pressing `Get JWT audience code`

### Okta
---

[Auth.js Okta Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/okta)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_OKTA_ISSUER`

### Keycloak
---

[Auth.js Keycloak Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/keycloak)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER`

### Microsoft Entra ID

[Auth.js Microsoft Entra ID Provider Docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id)

**Required environment variables:**
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `AUTH_EE_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER`

---
