docs/docs/configuration/environment-variables.mdx, before:

---
title: Environment variables 
sidebarTitle: Environment variables 
---

<Note>This page provides a detailed reference of all environment variables supported by Sourcebot. If you're just looking to get up and running, we recommend starting with the [deployment guides](/docs/deployment/docker-compose) instead.</Note>

### Core Environment Variables
The following environment variables allow you to configure your Sourcebot deployment.

| Variable | Default | Description |
| :------- | :------ | :---------- |
| `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` | `true` | <p>Enables/disables authentication with basic credentials. Username and passwords are stored encrypted at rest within the postgres database. Checkout the [auth docs](/docs/configuration/auth/overview) for more info</p> |
| `AUTH_EMAIL_CODE_LOGIN_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disables authentication with a login code that's sent to a users email. `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL` and `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS` must also be set. Checkout the [auth docs](/docs/configuration/auth/overview) for more info </p> |
| `AUTH_SECRET` | Automatically generated at startup if no value is provided. Generated using `openssl rand -base64 33` | <p>Used to validate login session cookies</p> |
| `AUTH_URL` | - | <p>URL of your Sourcebot deployment, e.g., `https://example.com` or `http://localhost:3000`.</p> |
| `CONFIG_PATH` | `-` | <p>The container relative path to the declerative configuration file. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/declarative-config) for more info.</p> | 
| `DATA_CACHE_DIR` | `$DATA_DIR/.sourcebot` | <p>The root data directory in which all data written to disk by Sourcebot will be located.</p> |
| `DATA_DIR` | `/data` | <p>The directory within the container to store all persistent data. Typically, this directory will be volume mapped such that data is persisted across container restarts (e.g., `docker run -v $(pwd):/data`)</p> |
| `DATABASE_DATA_DIR` | `$DATA_CACHE_DIR/db` | <p>The data directory for the default Postgres database.</p> |
| `DATABASE_URL` | `postgresql://postgres@ localhost:5432/sourcebot` | <p>Connection string of your Postgres database. By default, a Postgres database is automatically provisioned at startup within the container.</p><p>If you'd like to use a non-default schema, you can provide it as a parameter in the database url.</p><p>You can also use `DATABASE_HOST`, `DATABASE_USERNAME`, `DATABASE_PASSWORD`, `DATABASE_NAME`, and `DATABASE_ARGS` to construct the database url.</p> |
| `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS` | `-` | <p>The email address that transactional emails will be sent from. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more info.</p> | 
| `FORCE_ENABLE_ANONYMOUS_ACCESS` | `false` | <p>When enabled, [anonymous access](/docs/configuration/auth/access-settings#anonymous-access) to the organization will always be enabled</p>
| `REDIS_DATA_DIR` | `$DATA_CACHE_DIR/redis` | <p>The data directory for the default Redis instance.</p> |
| `REDIS_URL` | `redis://localhost:6379` | <p>Connection string of your Redis instance. By default, a Redis database is automatically provisioned at startup within the container.</p> |
| `REDIS_REMOVE_ON_COMPLETE` | `0` | <p>Controls how many completed jobs are allowed to remain in Redis queues</p> |
| `REDIS_REMOVE_ON_FAIL` | `100` | <p>Controls how many failed jobs are allowed to remain in Redis queues</p> |
| `REPO_SYNC_RETRY_BASE_SLEEP_SECONDS` | `60` | <p>The base sleep duration (in seconds) for exponential backoff when retrying repository sync operations that fail</p> |
| `GITLAB_CLIENT_QUERY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` | `600` | <p>The timeout duration (in seconds) for GitLab client queries</p> |
| `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL` | `-` | <p>The url to the SMTP service used for sending transactional emails. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more info.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_ENCRYPTION_KEY` | Automatically generated at startup if no value is provided. Generated using `openssl rand -base64 24` | <p>Used to encrypt connection secrets and generate API keys.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_PUBLIC_KEY_PATH` | `/app/public.pem` | <p>Sourcebot's public key that's used to verify encrypted license key signatures.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_LOG_LEVEL` | `info` | <p>The Sourcebot logging level. Valid values are `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, in order of severity.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_STRUCTURED_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disable structured JSON logging. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/structured-logging) for more info.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_STRUCTURED_LOGGING_FILE` | - | <p>Optional file to log to if structured logging is enabled</p> | 
| `SOURCEBOT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disables telemetry collection in Sourcebot. See [this doc](/docs/overview.mdx#telemetry) for more info.</p> |
| `DEFAULT_MAX_MATCH_COUNT` | `10000` | <p>The default maximum number of search results to return when using search in the web app.</p> |
| `ALWAYS_INDEX_FILE_PATTERNS` | - | <p>A comma separated list of glob patterns matching file paths that should always be indexed, regardless of size or number of trigrams.</p> |

### Enterprise Environment Variables
| Variable | Default | Description |
| :------- | :------ | :---------- |
| `SOURCEBOT_EE_AUDIT_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `true` | <p>Enables/disables audit logging</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` | `https://github.com` | <p>The base URL for GitHub Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for GitHub Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for GitHub Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` | `https://gitlab.com` | <p>The base URL for GitLab Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for GitLab Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for GitLab Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for Google SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for Google SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for Keycloak SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for Keycloak SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER` | `-` | <p>The issuer URL for Keycloak SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for Okta SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for Okta SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_OKTA_ISSUER` | `-` | <p>The issuer URL for Okta SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>When enabled, allows Sourcebot to automatically register/login from a successful GCP IAP redirect</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_AUDIENCE` | - | <p>The GCP IAP audience to use when verifying JWT tokens. Must be set to enable GCP IAP JIT provisioning</p> | 
| `EXPERIMENT_EE_PERMISSION_SYNC_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables [permission syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing).</p> |


### Review Agent Environment Variables
| Variable | Default | Description |
| :------- | :------ | :---------- |
| `GITHUB_REVIEW_AGENT_APP_ID` | `-` | <p>The GitHub App ID used for review agent authentication.</p> |
| `GITHUB_REVIEW_AGENT_APP_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH` | `-` | <p>The container relative path to the private key file for the GitHub App used by the review agent.</p> |
| `GITHUB_REVIEW_AGENT_APP_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The webhook secret for the GitHub App used by the review agent.</p> |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | `-` | <p>The OpenAI API key used by the review agent.</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_API_KEY` | `-` | <p>The Sourcebot API key used by the review agent.</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_AUTO_REVIEW_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disables automatic code reviews by the review agent.</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `true` | <p>Enables/disables logging for the review agent. Logs are saved in `DATA_CACHE_DIR/review-agent`</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_REVIEW_COMMAND` | `review` | <p>The command used to trigger a code review by the review agent.</p> |

### Overriding environment variables from the config

You can override environment variables from the config file by using the `environmentOverrides` property. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/config-file#overriding-environment-variables-from-the-config) for more info.

Commit message:

chore: Upgrade node version & add HTTP proxy configuration (#753)

docs/docs/configuration/environment-variables.mdx, after:

---
title: Environment variables 
sidebarTitle: Environment variables 
---

<Note>This page provides a detailed reference of all environment variables supported by Sourcebot. If you're just looking to get up and running, we recommend starting with the [deployment guides](/docs/deployment/docker-compose) instead.</Note>

### Core Environment Variables
The following environment variables allow you to configure your Sourcebot deployment.

| Variable | Default | Description |
| :------- | :------ | :---------- |
| `AUTH_CREDENTIALS_LOGIN_ENABLED` | `true` | <p>Enables/disables authentication with basic credentials. Username and passwords are stored encrypted at rest within the postgres database. Checkout the [auth docs](/docs/configuration/auth/overview) for more info</p> |
| `AUTH_EMAIL_CODE_LOGIN_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disables authentication with a login code that's sent to a users email. `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL` and `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS` must also be set. Checkout the [auth docs](/docs/configuration/auth/overview) for more info </p> |
| `AUTH_SECRET` | Automatically generated at startup if no value is provided. Generated using `openssl rand -base64 33` | <p>Used to validate login session cookies</p> |
| `AUTH_URL` | - | <p>URL of your Sourcebot deployment, e.g., `https://example.com` or `http://localhost:3000`.</p> |
| `CONFIG_PATH` | `-` | <p>The container relative path to the declerative configuration file. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/declarative-config) for more info.</p> | 
| `DATA_CACHE_DIR` | `$DATA_DIR/.sourcebot` | <p>The root data directory in which all data written to disk by Sourcebot will be located.</p> |
| `DATA_DIR` | `/data` | <p>The directory within the container to store all persistent data. Typically, this directory will be volume mapped such that data is persisted across container restarts (e.g., `docker run -v $(pwd):/data`)</p> |
| `DATABASE_DATA_DIR` | `$DATA_CACHE_DIR/db` | <p>The data directory for the default Postgres database.</p> |
| `DATABASE_URL` | `postgresql://postgres@ localhost:5432/sourcebot` | <p>Connection string of your Postgres database. By default, a Postgres database is automatically provisioned at startup within the container.</p><p>If you'd like to use a non-default schema, you can provide it as a parameter in the database url.</p><p>You can also use `DATABASE_HOST`, `DATABASE_USERNAME`, `DATABASE_PASSWORD`, `DATABASE_NAME`, and `DATABASE_ARGS` to construct the database url.</p> |
| `EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS` | `-` | <p>The email address that transactional emails will be sent from. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more info.</p> | 
| `FORCE_ENABLE_ANONYMOUS_ACCESS` | `false` | <p>When enabled, [anonymous access](/docs/configuration/auth/access-settings#anonymous-access) to the organization will always be enabled</p>
| `REDIS_DATA_DIR` | `$DATA_CACHE_DIR/redis` | <p>The data directory for the default Redis instance.</p> |
| `REDIS_URL` | `redis://localhost:6379` | <p>Connection string of your Redis instance. By default, a Redis database is automatically provisioned at startup within the container.</p> |
| `REDIS_REMOVE_ON_COMPLETE` | `0` | <p>Controls how many completed jobs are allowed to remain in Redis queues</p> |
| `REDIS_REMOVE_ON_FAIL` | `100` | <p>Controls how many failed jobs are allowed to remain in Redis queues</p> |
| `REPO_SYNC_RETRY_BASE_SLEEP_SECONDS` | `60` | <p>The base sleep duration (in seconds) for exponential backoff when retrying repository sync operations that fail</p> |
| `GITLAB_CLIENT_QUERY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` | `600` | <p>The timeout duration (in seconds) for GitLab client queries</p> |
| `SMTP_CONNECTION_URL` | `-` | <p>The url to the SMTP service used for sending transactional emails. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/transactional-emails) for more info.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_ENCRYPTION_KEY` | Automatically generated at startup if no value is provided. Generated using `openssl rand -base64 24` | <p>Used to encrypt connection secrets and generate API keys.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_PUBLIC_KEY_PATH` | `/app/public.pem` | <p>Sourcebot's public key that's used to verify encrypted license key signatures.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_LOG_LEVEL` | `info` | <p>The Sourcebot logging level. Valid values are `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, in order of severity.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_STRUCTURED_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disable structured JSON logging. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/structured-logging) for more info.</p> |
| `SOURCEBOT_STRUCTURED_LOGGING_FILE` | - | <p>Optional file to log to if structured logging is enabled</p> | 
| `SOURCEBOT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disables telemetry collection in Sourcebot. See [this doc](/docs/overview.mdx#telemetry) for more info.</p> |
| `DEFAULT_MAX_MATCH_COUNT` | `10000` | <p>The default maximum number of search results to return when using search in the web app.</p> |
| `ALWAYS_INDEX_FILE_PATTERNS` | - | <p>A comma separated list of glob patterns matching file paths that should always be indexed, regardless of size or number of trigrams.</p> |
| `NODE_USE_ENV_PROXY` | `0` | <p>Enables Node.js to automatically use `HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, and `NO_PROXY` environment variables for network requests. Set to `1` to enable or `0` to disable. See [this doc](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/http/enterprise-network-configuration) for more info.</p> |
| `HTTP_PROXY` | - | <p>HTTP proxy URL for routing non-SSL requests through a proxy server (e.g., `http://proxy.company.com:8080`). Requires `NODE_USE_ENV_PROXY=1`.</p> |
| `HTTPS_PROXY` | - | <p>HTTPS proxy URL for routing SSL requests through a proxy server (e.g., `http://proxy.company.com:8080`). Requires `NODE_USE_ENV_PROXY=1`.</p> |
| `NO_PROXY` | - | <p>Comma-separated list of hostnames or domains that should bypass the proxy (e.g., `localhost,127.0.0.1,.internal.domain`). Requires `NODE_USE_ENV_PROXY=1`.</p> |

### Enterprise Environment Variables
| Variable | Default | Description |
| :------- | :------ | :---------- |
| `SOURCEBOT_EE_AUDIT_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `true` | <p>Enables/disables audit logging</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_BASE_URL` | `https://github.com` | <p>The base URL for GitHub Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for GitHub Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for GitHub Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_BASE_URL` | `https://gitlab.com` | <p>The base URL for GitLab Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for GitLab Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for GitLab Enterprise SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for Google SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for Google SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for Keycloak SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for Keycloak SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_KEYCLOAK_ISSUER` | `-` | <p>The issuer URL for Keycloak SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_ID` | `-` | <p>The client ID for Okta SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The client secret for Okta SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_OKTA_ISSUER` | `-` | <p>The issuer URL for Okta SSO authentication.</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>When enabled, allows Sourcebot to automatically register/login from a successful GCP IAP redirect</p> |
| `AUTH_EE_GCP_IAP_AUDIENCE` | - | <p>The GCP IAP audience to use when verifying JWT tokens. Must be set to enable GCP IAP JIT provisioning</p> | 
| `EXPERIMENT_EE_PERMISSION_SYNC_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables [permission syncing](/docs/features/permission-syncing).</p> |


### Review Agent Environment Variables
| Variable | Default | Description |
| :------- | :------ | :---------- |
| `GITHUB_REVIEW_AGENT_APP_ID` | `-` | <p>The GitHub App ID used for review agent authentication.</p> |
| `GITHUB_REVIEW_AGENT_APP_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH` | `-` | <p>The container relative path to the private key file for the GitHub App used by the review agent.</p> |
| `GITHUB_REVIEW_AGENT_APP_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | `-` | <p>The webhook secret for the GitHub App used by the review agent.</p> |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | `-` | <p>The OpenAI API key used by the review agent.</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_API_KEY` | `-` | <p>The Sourcebot API key used by the review agent.</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_AUTO_REVIEW_ENABLED` | `false` | <p>Enables/disables automatic code reviews by the review agent.</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `true` | <p>Enables/disables logging for the review agent. Logs are saved in `DATA_CACHE_DIR/review-agent`</p> |
| `REVIEW_AGENT_REVIEW_COMMAND` | `review` | <p>The command used to trigger a code review by the review agent.</p> |

### Overriding environment variables from the config

You can override environment variables from the config file by using the `environmentOverrides` property. See [this doc](/docs/configuration/config-file#overriding-environment-variables-from-the-config) for more info.
